---
layout: post
title: "Please, pretty please: use theme overrides."
---

Having been working on quite a few Drupal projects in the past few months, I faced quite often the same kind of misinformed rant from Chinese users as the ones that were going on around the time DrupalCon Paris took place. Basically, some people are reluctant to use tools such as Panels or Views because the default markup they generate does not seem to fit their specific needs, or is bluntly considered as overkill. While this is partly true, the **default** is just here to satisfy as many developers and themers as possible **by default**. This has been discussed many times before and is well known for anybody who's been playing a bit with these modules before; the template system lets you override virtually every output. I'm a sucker for the Drupal theming system; provided that you understand the overall mechanisms of it, you can bend Drupal to your will in no time and much more accurately than most other CMS.

## What's the dealio?

Now, the goal of this post is not to explain once more these mechanisms; others have done it before, better than I could, and there is always the Drupal documentation (RTFM). We (and I mean [Sina](http://wiredcraft.com">Wiredcraft</a> here) recently had to deal with optimizing the performances of a Drupal site that presents some interesting (Chinese) characteristics; very, very, VERY long pages, like a yummy 250KB for the HTML alone. This may sound a bit crazy, but that's just the norm in China; just have a look at <a href="http://www.sina.com.cn/) for example, this is one of the leaders. Just browse a little, now close your browser and go cry to death. Now that seem almost bearable when you use Firefox, or Chrome, but imagine that most Chinese users are on IE6: hello crazy Javascript slowness (especially with DOM that large) and serialized downloading of media content (just 2 files at a time). There are many ways to speed things up for the end user, hopefully I'll get to it in a future post, however for now I am just going to discuss one of the things we had to do; since we where doing a very extensive use of both Panels and Views, we had to trim down their output to a minimum.

## How we do it

Alright, nothing fancy, I am sure there are already hundreds of people out there that do have these kind of overrides and did not feel compelled to blog about it. Well I am gonna make very simple for those who don't necessarily feel the need to start messing with PHP:

1. Download the [archive of template files]() attached to this post,
1. Uncompress it,
1. Drop all the files in your theme folder,
1. Clear the cache,

Now this takes care of views, however Panels has as well a pretty verbose output. You have two approach for that, either 
